# Tags

The Azure Resource Manager supports tagging entities with arbitrary text strings to identify context and streamline automation. For example, the tag "sqlVersion: "sql2014ee" could identify VMs in a deployment running SQL Server 2014 Enterprise Edition for running an automated script against them. Tags should be used to augment and enhance context alongside of the naming conventions chosen.

Each resource or resource group can have a **maximum of 15 tags**. The **tag name is** **limited to 512 characters**, and the **tag value is limited to 256 characters**.

Some of the common tagging use cases are:

  - Billing; Grouping resources and associating them with billing or charge back codes.

  - Service Context Identification; Identify groups of resources across Resource Groups for common operations and grouping

  - Access Control and Security Context; Administrative role identification based on portfolio, system, service, app, instance, etc.

  - Production environment; Prod, Dev, Test

We recommend: Tag early - tag often. Better to have a baseline tagging scheme in place and adjust over time rather than having to retrofit after the fact.
Source: <https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-resource-manager/resource-group-using-tags>

Tagging can be applied, and if required, enforced via Azure Policy. Sample initiatives are provided and can be modified to suit your requirements. 
Source: https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/governance/policy/samples/billing-tags-policy-initiative
